Add Redis connector example (#1602)
wso2/docs-ei: en/micro-integrator/docs/references/connectors/redis-connector/redis-connector-example.md

## What you'll build

Given below is a sample scenario that demonstrates how to work with the WSO2 EI Redis Connector and access the Redis server, using Redis commands.

The user sends the request to invoke an API to get stock details. This REST call will get converted into a SOAP message and is sent to the back-end service. While the response from the backend service is converted back to JSON and sent back to the API caller, WSO2 EI will extract stock volume details from the response and store it into a configured Redis server.
When users need to retrieve stock volumes collected, they can invoke the `getstockvolumedetails` resource. This example also demonstrates how users can manipulate this stock volume details by removing unwanted items from the Redis server.

> **Note**: In this scenario you need to set up the Redis Server in your local machine. Please refer the [Setting up the Redis Connector](redis-connector-configuration.md) documentation. Follow the steps listed under `Setting up the Redis server` section to setup the Redis server and `Set up the back-end service` section to setup the Stockquote service. 
This example demonstrates how to use Redis connector to:

> 1. Retrieve stock volume details from the Stockquote back-end service. This is done while extracting the stock volume, creating a Redis hashe map, and adding stock volume details to the Redis server. (In this example, Redis hashes are used to store different companies' stocks volume details. Since the “symbol” that is sent in the request is “WSO2”, the request is routed to the WSO2 endpoint. Once the response from the WSO2 endpoint is received, it is transformed according to the specified template and sent to the client. Then create a hashes map and insert extracted details to the Redis hashmap).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Retrieve stock volume details from the Stockquote back-end service. This is done while extracting the stock volume, creating a Redis hash map, and adding stock volume details to the Redis server. (In this example, Redis hashes are used to store different companies' stocks volume details. Since the “symbol” that is sent in the request is “WSO2”, the request is routed to the WSO2 endpoint. Once the response from the WSO2 endpoint is received, it is transformed according to the specified template and sent to the client. Then create a hash map and insert extracted details to the Redis hash map).
```

# Redis Connector Example

> The Redis connector allows you to access the Redis commands through the WSO2 EI. Redis is an open source (BSD licensed), in-memory data structure store, used as a database, cache and message broker. It supports data structures such as strings, hashes, lists, sets, sorted sets with range queries, bitmaps, hyperloglogs and geospatial indexes with radius queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Redis connector allows you to access the Redis commands through the WSO2 EI. Redis is an open source (BSD licensed), in-memory data structure store, used as a database, cache, and message broker. It supports data structures such as strings, hashes, lists, sets, sorted sets with range queries, bitmaps, hyperlogs and geospatial indexes with radius queries.
```

Author: Updated.

> This connector enables developers to use an external Redis server as a cache or a database in the WSO2 EI mediation logic.

Reviewer 2: `cache or a database` shall we make this bold as it is the main use case?

Reviewer 2: hyperloglogs --> hyperlogs?

Author: Updated.

## What you'll build

Given below is a sample scenario that demonstrates how to work with the WSO2 EI Redis Connector and access the Redis server, using Redis commands.

> The user sends the request for invoke to an API to get stock details. this REST call will get converted into a SOAP message and sent to the back-end service. While the response from the backend service is converted back to json and sent back to the API caller, WSO2 EI will extract stock volume details from the response, store it into configured Redis server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user sends the request to invoke an API to get stock details. This REST call will get converted into a SOAP message and is sent to the back-end service. While the response from the backend service is converted back to JSON and sent back to the API caller, WSO2 EI will extract stock volume details from the response and store it into a configured Redis server.
```

Author: Updated.

> When users need to retrieve stock volumes collected, they can invoke `getstockvolumedetails` resource. This example also demonstrates how users can manipulate this stock volume details by removing unwanted items from the Redis server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When users need to retrieve stock volumes collected, they can invoke the `getstockvolumedetails` resource. This example also demonstrates how users can manipulate this stock volume details by removing unwanted items from the Redis server.
```

Author: Updated.

> > **Note**: In this scenario we need to set up the Redis Server in your local machine. Please refer the [Setting up the Redis Connector](redis-connector-configuration.md) documentation. Follow the steps listed under `Setting up the Redis server` section for setup the Redis server and `Set up the back-end service` section for setup the Stockquote service. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: In this scenario you need to set up the Redis Server in your local machine. Please refer the [Setting up the Redis Connector](redis-connector-configuration.md) documentation. Follow the steps listed under `Setting up the Redis server` section to setup the Redis server and `Set up the back-end service` section to setup the Stockquote service. 
```

Author: Updated.

This example demonstrates how to use Redis connector to:

> 1. Retrieve stock volume details from the Stockquote back-end service. While extracting the stock volume, creating a Redis hashe map and add stock volume details to the Redis server. (In this example a Redis hashes is used to store different companies' stocks volume details. Since the “symbol” that is sent in the request is “WSO2”, the request is routed to the WSO2 endpoint. Once the response from the WSO2 endpoint is received, it is transformed according to the specified template and sent to the client. Then create a hashes map and insert extracted details to the Redis hashe map).

Reviewer 2: Since the “symbol” that is sent in the request is “WSO2” - is this valid after modifying the scenario?

Author: Yes

> 1. Retrieve stock volume details from the Stockquote back-end service. While extracting the stock volume, creating a Redis hashe map and add stock volume details to the Redis server. (In this example a Redis hashes is used to store different companies' stocks volume details. Since the “symbol” that is sent in the request is “WSO2”, the request is routed to the WSO2 endpoint. Once the response from the WSO2 endpoint is received, it is transformed according to the specified template and sent to the client. Then create a hashes map and insert extracted details to the Redis hashe map).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Retrieve stock volume details from the Stockquote back-end service. This is done while extracting the stock volume, creating a Redis hashe map, and adding stock volume details to the Redis server. (In this example, Redis hashes are used to store different companies' stocks volume details. Since the “symbol” that is sent in the request is “WSO2”, the request is routed to the WSO2 endpoint. Once the response from the WSO2 endpoint is received, it is transformed according to the specified template and sent to the client. Then create a hashes map and insert extracted details to the Redis hashe map).
```

Author: Updated.

> 1. Retrieve stock volume details from the Stockquote back-end service. While extracting the stock volume, creating a Redis hashe map and add stock volume details to the Redis server. (In this example a Redis hashes is used to store different companies' stocks volume details. Since the “symbol” that is sent in the request is “WSO2”, the request is routed to the WSO2 endpoint. Once the response from the WSO2 endpoint is received, it is transformed according to the specified template and sent to the client. Then create a hashes map and insert extracted details to the Redis hashe map).

Author: Change this part in new sample.

> 1. Retrieve stock volume details from the Stockquote back-end service. While extracting the stock volume, creating a Redis hashe map and add stock volume details to the Redis server. (In this example a Redis hashes is used to store different companies' stocks volume details. Since the “symbol” that is sent in the request is “WSO2”, the request is routed to the WSO2 endpoint. Once the response from the WSO2 endpoint is received, it is transformed according to the specified template and sent to the client. Then create a hashes map and insert extracted details to the Redis hashe map).

Author: Updated.

> 2. Retrieve all stock volume details from the redis server.

Reviewer: Let's change "redis" to "Redis" everywhere.

Author: Updated.

> 4. Remove stock volume details.

Reviewer 2: Remove stock volume details from Redis server.

Author: Updated.

> All four operations are exposed via an `StockQuoteAPI` API. The API with the context `/stockquote` has four resources  

Reviewer 2: There's no four operations now...

Author: Updated.

> * `/getstockquote/{symbol}` : Used to get stock volume details. While extracting and send details in to the Redis hash map.

Reviewer 2: Grammar issue

Author: Updated.

> * `/getstockquote/{symbol}` : Used to get stock volume details. While extracting and send details in to the Redis hash map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `/getstockquote/{symbol}`: This is used to get stock volume details while extracting and sending details to the Redis hash map.
```

Author: Updated.

* `/getstockvolumedetails` : Retrieve information about the inserted stock volume details.
* `/deletestockvolumedetails` : Remove unwanted stock volume details.

> The following diagram shows the overall solution. The user creates a hash map, stores some WSO2 stock volume details into the list, and then receives it back and remove unwanted hash map items. To invoke each operation, the user uses the same API.

Reviewer 2: The user creates a Redis hashmap.

Reviewer 2: To invoke each operation, the user uses the same API - i believe this was mentioned before on the document as well.

Author: Updated.

> The following diagram shows the overall solution. The user creates a hash map, stores some WSO2 stock volume details into the list, and then receives it back and remove unwanted hash map items. To invoke each operation, the user uses the same API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following diagram shows the overall solution. The user creates a hash map, stores WSO2 stock volume details into the list, and then receives it back and removes unwanted hash map items. To invoke each operation, the user uses the same API.
```

Author: Updated.

<img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-connector-example-updated.png" title="Redis connector example" width="800" alt="Redis connector example"/>

If you do not want to configure this yourself, you can simply [get the project](#get-the-project) and run it.

## Configure the connector in WSO2 Integration Studio

Connectors can be added to integration flows in [WSO2 Integration Studio](https://wso2.com/integration/integration-studio/), which is the tooling component of WSO2 EI. Once added, the operations of the connector can be dragged onto your canvas and added to your resources.

### Import the connector

> Follow these steps to set up the ESB Solution Project and the Connector Exporter Project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to set up the Integration Project and the Connector Exporter Project. 
```

Author: Updated.

{!references/connectors/importing-connector-to-integration-studio.md!} 

### Add integration logic

First create an API, which will be where we configure the integration logic. Right click on the created Integration Project and select, **New** -> **Rest API** to create the REST API. Specify the API name as `SampleRdisAPI` and API context as `/resources`.
    
<img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/adding-an-api.png" title="Adding a Rest API" width="800" alt="Adding a Rest API"/>

#### Configuring the API

##### Configure a resource for the getstockquote operation

> Create a resource, to setting up Redis hash map and sets a specific field in a hash to a specified value. In this sample user sends the request for invoke to the created API to get WSO2 stock volume details. For this we added following components to the configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a resource that sets up Redis hash map and sets a specific field in a hash to a specified value. In this sample, the user sends the request to invoke the created API to get WSO2 stock volume details. To achieve this, add the following components to the configuration.
```

Author: Updated.

> 1. Add address endpoint using with the send mediator to access SimpleStockQuoteService.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add an address endpoint using the send mediator to access SimpleStockQuoteService.
```

Author: Updated.

   
   <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-address-endpoint.png" title="Address endpoint" width="500" alt="Address endpoint"/>  

> 2. Add Header to get Quote from the SimpleStockQuoteService.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add a header to get a quote from the SimpleStockQuoteService.
```

Author: Updated.

   <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-header.png" title="Add Header to get Quote" width="500" alt="Add Header to get Quote"/> 

> 3. Add payload factory to extract selected stock details. In this sample we try to get WSO2 stock details from the SimpleStockQuoteService.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add a payload factory to extract the selected stock details. In this sample, we attempt to get WSO2 stock details from the SimpleStockQuoteService.
```

Author: Updated.

   
   <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-payloadfactory.png" title="Add payloadfactory to extract WSO2 details" width="500" alt="Add payloadfactory to extract WSO2 details"/> 

4. In this example, we copy the original payload to a property using the Enrich mediator.
   
   <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-enrich1.png" title="Add enrich mediator" width="500" alt="Add enrich mediator"/> 

>    Then whenever we need the original payload, we replace the message body with this property value using the Enrich mediator as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   When we need the original payload, we replace the message body with this property value using the Enrich mediator as follows.
```

Author: Updated.

   
   <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-enrich2.png" title="Add enrich mediator" width="500" alt="Add enrich mediator"/> 
    
5. Initialize the connector.
    
    1. Navigate into the **Palette** pane and select the graphical operations icons listed under **Redis Connector** section. Then drag and drop the `init` operation into the Design pane.
        
        <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-init-drag-and-shop.png" title="Drag and drop init operation" width="500" alt="Drag and drop init operation"/>   
    
    2. Add the property values into the `init` operation as shown below. Replace the `redisHost`, `redisPort`, `redisTimeout` with your values.
        

>         - **redisHost** : The Redis host name (default localhost).. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - **redisHost**: The Redis host name (default localhost).
```

Author: Updated.

>         - **redisPort** : The port on which the Redis server is running (The default port is 6379).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - **redisPort**: The port on which the Redis server is running (the default port is 6379).
```

Author: Updated.

        - **redisTimeout** : The server TTL (Time to live) in milliseconds.
    
        <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-init-parameterspng.png" title="Add values to the init operation" width="800" alt="Add values to the init operation"/>

> 6. Set up the hSet operation. In this operation sets a specific field in a hash to a specified value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Set up the hSet operation. This operation sets a specific field in a hash to a specified value.
```

Author: Updated.

    1. Navigate into the **Palette** pane and select the graphical operations icons listed under **Redis Connector** section. Then drag and drop the `hSet` operation into the Design pane.
           
        <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-hSet-drag-and-drop.png" title="Drag and drop hSet operation" width="500" alt="Drag and drop hSet operation"/>    

>     2. In this operation we are going to sets a hash map in to the Redis server. The hSet operation sets a specific field in a hash to a specified value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. In this operation we are going to set a hash map to the Redis server. The hSet operation sets a specific field in a hash to a specified value.
```

Author: Updated.

                                                                                 
        - **redisKey** : The name of the key where the hash is stored.
        - **redisField** : The field for which you want to set a value.
        - **redisValue** : The value that you want to set for the field.
        

>         In this example `redisKey` value is configured as **StockVolume**. While invoking the API, the above `redisField`,`redisValue` parameters values extracted from the response of SimpleStockQuoteService. Then they are populated as an input value for the redis `hSet` operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        In this example, `redisKey` value is configured as **StockVolume**. While invoking the API, the above `redisField`,`redisValue` parameter values are extracted from the response of the SimpleStockQuoteService. Then they are populated as an input value for the Redis `hSet` operation.
```

Author: Updated.

        
        <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-hSet-drag-and-drop-parameter.png" title="hSet parameters" width="500" alt="hSet parameters"/> 
    

> 7. To get the input values in to the `hSet` we can use the [property mediator](../../../mediators/property-Mediator). Navigate into the **Palette** pane and select the graphical mediators icons listed under **Mediators** section. Then drag and drop the `Property` mediators into the Design pane as shown bellow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. To get the input values in to the `hSet`, we can use the [property mediator](../../../mediators/property-Mediator). Navigate into the **Palette** pane and select the graphical mediators icons listed under **Mediators** section. Then drag and drop the `Property` mediators onto the Design pane as shown below.
```

Author: Updated.

>    > **Note**: That the properties should be add to the pallet before create the operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > **Note**: The properties should be added to the pallet before creating the operation.
```

Author: Updated.

        
        The parameters available for configuring the Property mediator are as follows:
    

>     1. Add the property mediator to capture the `symbol` value from the response of SimpleStockQuoteService. The 'symbol' contains company name of the stock quote. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Add the property mediator to capture the `symbol` value from the response of SimpleStockQuoteService. The 'symbol' contains the company name of the stock quote. 
```

Author: Updated.

   
        - **name** : symbol
        - **value expression** : $body/soapenv:Envelope/soapenv:Body/ns:getQuoteResponse/ax21:symbol
   
        <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-getsymbol-properties1.png" title="Add property mediators to get symbol" width="600" alt="Add property mediators to get symbol"/>
    
    2. Add the property mediator to capture the `volume` values. The 'volume' contains stock quote volume of the selected company.              
   
        - **name** : volume
        - **value expression** : $body/soapenv:Envelope/soapenv:Body/ns:getQuoteResponse/ax21:volume
     
        <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-getvolume-properties1.png" title="Add property mediators to get volume" width="600" alt="Add property mediators to get volume"/>  
        
8. Forward the backend response to the API caller.
    

>     When you are invoking the created resource, the request of the message is going through the `/getstockquote` resource. Finally, it is passed to the [Respond mediator](https://ei.docs.wso2.com/en/next/micro-integrator/references/mediators/respond-Mediator/). The Respond Mediator stops the processing on the current message and sends the message back to the client as a response.            

Reviewer: Please add a relative link here.

    
    1. Drag and drop **respond mediator** to the **Design view**. 
    
         <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-respond-mediator.png" title="Add Respond mediator" width="800" alt="Add Respond mediator"/> 

    2. Once you have setup the resource, you can see the `getstockquote` resource as shown below.
    
         <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-createstockvolume-resource.png" title="Resource design view" width="600" alt="Resource design view"/>

##### Configure a resource for the getstockvolumedetails operation
    
1. Initialize the connector.
   You can use the same configuration to initialize the connector. Please follow the steps given in section 5 for setting up the `init` operation to the `getstockquote` operation.
   
      - **redisKey** : The name of the key where the hash is stored.

2. Set up the lLen operation.

>    Navigate into the **Palette** pane and select the graphical operations icons listed under **Redis Connector** section. Then drag and drop the `hGetAll` operation into the Design pane.The `hGetAll` operation retrieves all the fields and values in a hash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Navigate into the **Palette** pane and select the graphical operations icons listed under **Redis Connector** section. Then drag and drop the `hGetAll` operation into the Design pane. The `hGetAll` operation retrieves all the fields and values in a hash.
```

Author: Updated.

                <inSequence>
                    <property expression="json-eval($.redisFields)" name="redisFields" scope="default" type="STRING"/>
                    <redis.init>
                        <redisHost>127.0.0.1</redisHost>
                        <redisPort>6379</redisPort>
                        <redisTimeout>10000000000</redisTimeout>
                    </redis.init>
                    <redis.hDel>
                        <redisKey>StockVolume</redisKey>
                        <redisFields>{$ctx:redisFields}</redisFields>
                    </redis.hDel>
                    <respond/>
                </inSequence>
                <outSequence/>
                <faultSequence/>
            </resource>
        </api>
        ```
## Get the project

You can download the ZIP file and extract the contents to get the project code.

<a href="../../../../assets/attach/connectors/smpp-connector.zip">
    <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/download-zip.png" width="200" alt="Download ZIP">
</a>

## Deployment

Follow these steps to deploy the exported CApp in the Enterprise Integrator Runtime. 

{!references/connectors/deploy-capp.md!}   

## Testing

> Invoke the API as shown below using the curl command. Curl Application can be downloaded from [here] (https://curl.haxx.se/download.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Invoke the API as shown below using the curl command. Curl Application can be downloaded from [here](https://curl.haxx.se/download.html).
```

Author: Updated.

     ```
     
   **Expected Response**
         
     ```json
     {
         "Envelope": {
             "Body": {
                 "getQuoteResponse": {
                     "change": -2.86843917118114,
                     "earnings": -8.540305401672558,
                     "high": -176.67958828498735,
                     "last": 177.66987465262923,
                     "low": -176.30898912339075,
                     "marketCap": 56495579.98178506,
                     "name": "IBM Company",
                     "open": 185.62740369461244,
                     "peRatio": 24.341353665128693,
                     "percentageChange": -1.4930577008849097,
                     "prevClose": 192.11844053187397,
                     "symbol": "IBM",
                     "volume": 7791
                 }
             }
         }
     }      
        
     ```
   **Inserted hash map can check using `redis-cli`**  
   
     Log in to the `redis-cli` and execute `HGETALL StockVolume` command to retrieve inserted hash map details.
   
     ```
     127.0.0.1:6379> HGETALL StockVolume
     1) "IBM"
     2) "7791"
     3) "WSO2"
     4) "7791"
     127.0.0.1:6379>
     ```

> 2. Retrieve all stock volume details from the redis server.

Reviewer: Does the formatting render correctly in the doc site here?

Author: Yes

# Redis Connector Example

> The Redis connector allows you to access the Redis commands through the WSO2 EI. Redis is an open source (BSD licensed), in-memory data structure store, used as a database, cache and message broker. It supports data structures such as strings, hashes, lists, sets, sorted sets with range queries, bitmaps, hyperloglogs and geospatial indexes with radius queries.

Reviewer 2: Add below as well. 

This connector enables developers to use an external Redis server as a cache or a database in the WSO2 EI mediation logic.

Author: Updated.

## What you'll build

Given below is a sample scenario that demonstrates how to work with the WSO2 EI Redis Connector and access the Redis server, using Redis commands.

> The user sends the request for invoke to the created API to get IBM stock details. These REST call will get converted into SOAP calls and sent to the back-end service. The response will be sent to the client and in will use to create a `Redis list` to store IBM stock volume details inside the Redis server.

Reviewer 2: for invoke to the created API --> to an API

Reviewer 2: These REST call --> this REST call

Reviewer 2: SOAP calls --> a SOAP message

Reviewer 2: The response will be sent to the client and in will use to create a `Redis list` to store IBM stock volume details inside the Redis server.

I believe what you want to express is : 

While the response from the backend service is converted back to json and sent back to the API caller, WSO2 EI will extract `stock volume details` from the response and use xxx operation (bold operation name) to store it into configured Redis server.

Author: Updated as suggested one.

> If user need to retrieve list items (stock volume) from the created list need to invoke `getstockvolumelength` operation. Based on the known length user can list down  range of inserted list items. Finally user able to remove unwanted list items from the create list.

Reviewer 2: When users need to retrieve stock volumes collected, they can invoke `getstockvolumelength` operation. This example also demonstrates how users can manipulate this list by removing unwanted items from the list.

Author: Updated.

> **Note**: In this scenario we need to set up the Redis Server in your local machine. Please refer the [Setting up the Redis Connector](redis-connector-configuration.md) documentation. Follow the steps listed under `Setting up the Redis server` section for setup the Redis server and `Set up the back-end service` section for setup the Stockquote service. 

This example demonstrates how to use Redis connector to:

> 1. Create a Redis list and add stock volume for the IBM inside the Redis server (A Redis list is location for storing stock volume details about IBM stocks).

Reviewer 2: Is it only for IBM? As i understood it is for any Company.

Author: Our stock quote sample the request is routed to the IBM endpoint. 

1. https://docs.wso2.com/display/EI620/Sample+663%3A+Using+Multiple+Sequences
2. https://ei.docs.wso2.com/en/latest/micro-integrator/use-cases/examples/rest_api_examples/introduction-rest-api/

I have updated above as example doc first  point as like this. 

1. Create a Redis list and add stock volume details to the Redis server. (In this example a Redis list is use to storing IBM stocks volume details. Since the “symbol” that is sent in the request is “IBM”, the request is routed to the IBM endpoint. Once the response from the IBM endpoint is received, it is transformed according to the specified template and sent to the client. Then create a list and insert extracted details to the Redis list).

Author: Updated as "WSO2"

2. Retrieve Redis list length from the created list.

> 3. Retrieve list details and elements from the given range of list length.

Reviewer 2: Retrieve list details and elements from the given range of list specified using Redis list length acquired above.

Author: Updated.

4. Remove stock volume list items.

> All four operations are exposed via an `SampleRdisAPI` API. The API with the context `/resources` has four resources  

Reviewer 2: Let's say `StockQuoteAPI`? Context can be `/stockquote`. In that way we can give it is scenario feeling. Calling Redis is in internal thing. Users who consume API do not need to know that.

Author: Updated.

* `/createstockvolume/{symbol}` : Used to create a Redis list and add list items.
* `/getstockvolumelength` : Retrieve information about the created list length.
* `/getstockvolumelist` : Retrieve all elements from the given range of length.

> * `/removestockvolumeelements` : Remove list items.

Reviewer 2: Here, which resource we use to extract and store stock volume lists? `/createstockvolume` does not give that feeling. Shall we rename it as `/getstockquote`?

Author: In this operation included,

-  get stock quote details from the stockquote back-end service and extract the volume and symbol name.
-  Create a list and insert. (pushing extracted details in to the Redis server then create list using "lPush" operation).

Author: Updated as "/getstockquote".

   
   <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-payloadfactory.png" title="Add payloadfactory to extract IBM details" width="500" alt="Add payloadfactory to extract IBM details"/> 

4. Initialize the connector.
    
    1. Navigate into the **Palette** pane and select the graphical operations icons listed under **Redis Connector** section. Then drag and drop the `init` operation into the Design pane.
        
        <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-init-drag-and-shop.png" title="Drag and drop init operation" width="500" alt="Drag and drop init operation"/>   
    
    2. Add the property values into the `init` operation as shown below. Replace the `redisHost`, `redisPort`, `redisTimeout` with your values.
        
        - **redisHost** : The Redis host name (default localhost).. 
        - **redisPort** : The port on which the Redis server is running (The default port is 6379).
        - **redisTimeout** : The server TTL (Time to live) in milliseconds.
    
        <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-init-parameterspng.png" title="Add values to the init operation" width="800" alt="Add values to the init operation"/>

> 5. Set up the iPush operation. In this operation we can inserts one or more elements to the head of a list.

Reviewer 2: Is there an operation called `iPush`?

Author: No.Updated as "lPush".

    1. Navigate into the **Palette** pane and select the graphical operations icons listed under **Redis Connector** section. Then drag and drop the `iPush` operation into the Design pane.
           
        <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-ipush-operation.png" title="Drag and drop ipush operation" width="500" alt="Drag and drop ipush operation"/>    

    2. In this operation we are going to inserts one or more elements to the head of a list.The lPush operation inserts one or more elements to the head of a list that is stored in a specified key.                                                                                          
          
        - **redisKey** : The name of the key where the list is stored.
        - **redisStrings** : One or more elements that you want to add to the head of the list.
        

>         While invoking the API, the above two parameters values extracted from the response of SimpleStockQuoteService. Then insert as a input value.

Reviewer 2: Then insert as a input value --> Then they are populated as an input value for the redis `iPush` operation.

Author: Updated.

        
        <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-ipush-parameters.png" title="iPush parameters" width="500" alt="iPush parameters"/> 
    
6. To get the input values in to the `iPush` we can use the [property mediator](../../../mediators/property-Mediator). Navigate into the **Palette** pane and select the graphical mediators icons listed under **Mediators** section. Then drag and drop the `Property` mediators into the Design pane as shown bellow.
    

>    > **Note**: That the properties should be add to the pallet before create the operation.

Reviewer 2: create operation means 'iPush'?

Author: This should be change as "lPush". Updated.

        
        The parameters available for configuring the Property mediator are as follows:
    
    1. Add the property mediator to capture the `symbol` value from the response of SimpleStockQuoteService. The 'symbol' contains name of the stock quote. 
   
        - **name** : symbol
        - **value expression** : $body/soapenv:Envelope/soapenv:Body/ns:getQuoteResponse/ax21:symbol
   
        <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-getsymbol-properties1.png" title="Add property mediators to get symbol" width="600" alt="Add property mediators to get symbol"/>
    
    2. Add the property mediator to capture the `volume` values. The message contains content of the SMS message.                  
   
        - **name** : volume
        - **value expression** : $body/soapenv:Envelope/soapenv:Body/ns:getQuoteResponse/ax21:volume
     
        <img src="../../../../assets/img/connectors/redis-getvolume-properties1.png" title="Add property mediators to get volume" width="600" alt="Add property mediators to get volume"/>  
        

> 7. Get a response to the user.

Reviewer 2: Forward the backend response to the API caller

Author: Updated.

# Redis Connector Example

The Redis connector allows you to access the Redis commands through the WSO2 EI. Redis is an open source (BSD licensed), in-memory data structure store, used as a database, cache and message broker. It supports data structures such as strings, hashes, lists, sets, sorted sets with range queries, bitmaps, hyperloglogs and geospatial indexes with radius queries.

This connector enables developers to use an external Redis server as a cache or a database in the WSO2 EI mediation logic.

## What you'll build

Given below is a sample scenario that demonstrates how to work with the WSO2 EI Redis Connector and access the Redis server, using Redis commands.

> The user sends the request for invoke to an API to get WSO2 stock details. this REST call will get converted into a SOAP message and sent to the back-end service. While the response from the backend service is converted back to json and sent back to the API caller, WSO2 EI will extract stock volume details from the response and use **/getstockquote** operation to store it into configured Redis server.

Reviewer 2: Shall we update as WSO2 EI will extract stock volume details from the response store it into configured Redis server?

Author: Updated.

This example demonstrates how to use Redis connector to:

1. Create a Redis list and add stock volume details to the Redis server. (In this example a Redis list is use to storing WSO2 stocks volume details. Since the “symbol” that is sent in the request is “WSO2”, the request is routed to the WSO2 endpoint. Once the response from the WSO2 endpoint is received, it is transformed according to the specified template and sent to the client. Then create a list and insert extracted details to the Redis list).
2. Retrieve Redis list length from the created list.
3. Retrieve list details and elements from the given range of list specified using Redis list length acquired above.
4. Remove stock volume list items.

All four operations are exposed via an `StockQuoteAPI` API. The API with the context `/stockquote` has four resources  

* `/getstockquote/{symbol}` : Used to create a Redis list and add list items.

> * `/getstockvolumelength` : Retrieve information about the created list length.

Reviewer 2: As a scenario, `/getstockvolumelength` is not much of use for the API caller. Shall we include it into `/getstockvolumelist` resource and do it as a service chain?

Author: updated.
